TCP/IP 

TCP/IP protocol suite is a layered networking protocol
the Internet Protocol (IP) and various protocols layered above it.

router: a computer whose function is to connect one subnetwork to another,
transferring data between them.

A networking protocol is a set of rules defining how information is to be transmitted
across a network.

Application layer
Transport layer : TCP(SOCK_STREAM) UDP(SOCK_DGRAM)
Network layer   : IP(SOCK_RAW)
Data-link layer


Data-link layer: 
consists of the device driver and the hardware interface
To transfer data, the data-link layer encapsulates datagrams from the network layer into units called frames
each frame includes a header containing, for example, the destination address and frame sizeç


Network layer: 
concerned with delivering packets (data) from the source host to the destination host. This layer performs a
variety of tasks, including:
	breaking data into fragments small enough for transmission via the data-link layer
	routing data across the internet
	providing services to the transport layer.

IP transmits data in the form of datagrams (packets).
IP is described as a connectionless protocol, since it doesn’t provide the notion of a
virtual circuit connecting two hosts. IP is also an unreliable protocol: it makes a
“best effort” to transmit datagrams from the sender to the receiver, but doesn’t
guarantee that packets will arrive in the order they were transmitted, that they
won’t be duplicated, or even that they will arrive at all.

Transport layer :
	User Datagram Protocol (UDP) is the protocol used for datagram sockets
	Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) is the protocol used for stream sockets.

	Port Numbers:
		The task of the transport protocol is to provide an end-to-end communication service 
		to applications residing on different hosts.
		well-known port  : are permanently assigned to specific applications
		registered ports : which are allocated to application developers on a less stringent basis
			https://www.iana.org/assignments/service-names-port-numbers/service-names-port-numbers.xhtml
		privileged ports : meaning that only privileged (CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE) processes may bind to these ports.
		ephemeral port: If an application doesn’t select a particular port then TCP and UDP assign a unique short live port
			rango de proovate port en /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_local_port_range


	User Datagram Protocol (UDP):
		UDP adds just two features to
			IP frame + port number + data checksum
		UDP is connectionless
	Transmission Control Protocol
		TCP provides a reliable, connection-oriented, bidirectional, byte-stream communication channel between two endpoints
		TCP endpoint:
		include
		the send buffers.
		the receive buffers for this end of the connection
		The state information that is maintained in order to synchronize the operation of the two
		connected endpoints.

		receiving TCP and sending TCP to denote the TCP endpoints
maintained for the receiving and sending applications on either end of a stream
socket connection that is being used to transmit data in a particular direction.

Connection establishment
	Negociation sender receiver

Packaging of data in segments
	Data is broken into segments, each of which contains a checksum to allow the
	detection of end-to-end transmission errors. Each segment is transmitted in a single
	IP datagram.

Acknowledgements, retransmissions, and timeouts
	TCP segment arrives at its destination without errors, the receiving TCP sends
	a positive acknowledgement to the sender, informing it of the successfully delivered
	data.
	If errors in data then it is discarded, and no acknowledgement is sent.
	To handle the possibility of segments that never arrive or are discarded, the
	sender starts a timer when each segment is transmitted. If an acknowledgement is
	not received before the timer expires, the segment is retransmitted.
	
Sequencing
	Each byte that is transmitted over a TCP connection is assigned a logical sequence
	number. This number indicates the position of that byte in the data stream for the
	connection.
	TCP segment is transmitted, it includes a field containing the sequence number
		- The sequence number allows TCP segments to be assembled in the correct
		order at the destination, and then passed as a byte stream to the application
		layer.
		-  The acknowledgement message passed from the receiver back to the sender
		can use the sequence number to identify which TCP segment was received.
		- The receiver can use the sequence number to eliminate duplicate segments

Flow control
	Flow control prevents a fast sender from overwhelming a slow receiver.

